Let's go over how we would
represent this state machine using
either a switch statement or
an object in code.
So just like we did for
the simple promise example,
we're gonna create a transition
function over here and
we're gonna have a state and an event.
And remember too that this state
is going to look something
like status: 'idle' or status: 'loading'.
But just to keep with the way that
we're doing things in XState,
I'd like to have it just as a value.
And so I consider this the value of
the finite state in the machine.
So remember,
instead of switching on the event,
we're gonna be switching
on that finite state.
So switch and
then we're gonna say state.value.
And so now we have three different states
that we're going to be considering.
We have the loading state,
loading, playing, and paused.
So case 'loading', case 'playing',
and case 'paused'.
Default: break.
Now, talking about impossible
states really real quick,
these are really the only possible
states that we should have.
So if you really want to,
you could throw an error to make
yourself feel better and
say this should be impossible.
But, yeah, using XState or other
libraries, it prevents this too, because
it ensures that only these possible
states happen in your application.
Okay, so now, we're going to just
return the state, just to make sure.
So in the loading state,
we see that only one event can happen.
We could have a loaded event and so
we should go into the playing state
when that loaded event happens.
Instead of using a switch statement,
cuz it's a little bit too verbose,
we're just going to have an if statement,
if (event.type === 'LOADED'),
then we're gonna return the state
where the value is playing.
And so we're gonna be doing that
with the other ones as well.
So if the event type is pause, then
we're going to go to the paused state.
If the event is play in the paused state,
we're going to be going
back to the playing state.
And so this is our entire switch statement
over here representing all of the events,
states, and transitions,
the three main building blocks for
building this finite state machine.
But we also do need an initialState too.
So const initialState=, and
we're just gonna have value,
this is going to be loading.
In fact, we could do something
that I believe Redux does,
where if we don't provide the state or
just have this explicitly undefined,
just say that this is going
to be the initialState.
So now, let's attach this to the window,
window.transition=transition, and
let's play around with it.
So we're gonna go back to
the media player over here.
And let's first try the initialState and
say (type: 'PLAY').
Now notice I'm intentionally doing the
PLAY event to show you that it should not
be handled in the loading state
because we're still loading the song.
So you see that the value is still
loading just like we expect.
But now if I have loaded, now it goes
to playing, again just as we expect.
And so if I take this and
put this over here, and
now that we're in the playing state,
let's say play happens again,
of course, it's still going to be playing.
And if I have the PAUSE event,
it's going to be paused.
And so that's how you could do
it using a switch statement.
But there is another way in that by
using the objects notation as well,
which I find a little bit simpler and
it comes with some other benefits as well.
So I'm going to be making
a machine over here,
providing the initialState of loading and
again, we have three states.
We have loading, playing, and paused.
So in the loading state,
on the loaded events, we go to playing.
In the playing state,
on the PAUSE event, we go to paused.
And in the paused state,
on the PLAY event, we go to playing.
And now we could take that same
function that we wrote in our
scratchpad for just looking
things up on this machine, and
I'm just gonna copy it
here from the final.js.
Just gonna copy this.
And I'm going to call
this machineTransition.
And I'm gonna be using the same
technique that we used before and
just give this an initialState
of value: machine.initial.
So now it becomes configurable, and we're
going to be looking up a couple things.
First, we're going to be looking up
that state object based on the value.
So for example, if the value is loading,
we're grabbing this entire object,
and then we're going to be
looking up the OnProperty and
seeing if there are any transitions.
Remember, it might not be defined, so
we're gonna put this
optional accessor over here.
And then we're going to look up if
there is a transition on that event.
Now, if any of this is undefined,
which is shown over here,
if we don't have an XState value,
we're going to stay in the currentState.
This is how state machines work.
If events are not handled in
the states that we specify, or
that we're currently in,
then it stays in the same state.
So just consider that
a feature of state machines.
So
window.machineTransition=machineTransit-
ion.
And so, this is going to behave
exactly the same way as before.
So, let's say we have transition,
let's call this machineTransition instead.
And playerMachineObject, aha,
that's because I'm into this machine.
There we go.
So now we go to playing, just as expected.
And again if we copy this over,
we have machineTransition and
we have a type of PAUSE,
then this is going to
go to the paused state.
And same thing if we're in the paused
state and the PLAY event happens,
now we're going to be going
to the playing state itself.
Now, you could get creative with this,
this is just a pure function.
And pure functions, as awesome as
they are especially if you're in
love with functional programming.
Not having side effects or
way to persist states doesn't really
make your application that useful.
So thankfully we could use this
pure function in a way that we
could persist the currentState.
And like I said,
you could get really creative with this,
I'm just going to have a really
simple implementation here.
So I'm just gonna say let currentState and
that's just going to be our initialState
of value and machine.initial.
And then I'm going to say const,
we're gonna call this a service.
And so this service is going to
allow us to send events to it.
So we could send: (event).
And so we're going to say
the currentState should be
the result of the currentState and
the event that was passed in.
And we'll also consol.log,
the currentState,
just to make sure it does
exactly what we expect it to.
So window.service=service.
And again, this is a very simple
implementation, put this in class,
have fun with it, make it subscribable,
do whatever you want.
But the main point is that now
it's something that's live.
We're persisting the currentState just
in this local variable over here,
actually it's a global variable.
And we're also imperatively
sending events to the service.
So, let's try it out.
Service.send, so
again we're in the initialState right now.
So if I send type of loaded,
we're gonna get playing.
And so
again because my state is persisted,
if I do PLAY, it's gonna stay on play.
If I do PAUSE,
now it's going to be paused.
So I could send a gibberish event,
and because that event is not handled,
it's going to stay in
exactly the same state.
And so that is a solution to the exercise.
Now, also, two things I wanna mention.
First of all, if you do wanna go to
the solution of the exercise and
see it, and I do encourage you to do so
if you get stuck,
you could always take a look
at the final.js file.
And in the actual application HTML,
you could uncomment
the main.final.js just to make sure
that you see the final result.
And you could make sure that what you're
doing matches up with that final result.